[DOCS] Obs AI Assistant connector (#183792)
elastic/kibana: docs/management/connectors/action-types/obs-ai-assistant.asciidoc

[[obs-ai-assistant-action-type]]
== Observability AI Assistant connector and action
++++
<titleabbrev>Observability AI Assistant</titleabbrev>
++++
:frontmatter-description: Add a rule action that adds AI-driven insights and custom actions to your workflow.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [kibana]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [how-to]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [configure]

preview::[]

The Observability AI Assistant connector adds AI-driven insights and custom actions to your workflow.

To learn how to interact with the assistant through this connector, refer to the {observability-guide}/obs-ai-assistant.html[Observability AI Assistant] documentation.

[float]
[[define-obs-ai-assistant-ui]]
=== Create connectors in {kib}

> To use this connector you must have the `api:observabilityAIAssistant` and `app:observabilityAIAssistant` privileges.

Author: ```suggestion
To use this connector, you must have been granted access to the Observability AI Assistant feature.
```

> To use this connector you must have the `api:observabilityAIAssistant` and `app:observabilityAIAssistant` privileges.
> 
> //TODO: Add link to docs that describe how to define these privileges.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
To use this connector, you must have been granted access to use the Observability AI Assistant feature.
```

You cannot manage this connector in *{stack-manage-app} > {connectors-ui}* or by using APIs.
You also cannot create an Observability AI Assistant <<pre-configured-connectors,preconfigured connector>>.
It is available only when you're creating a rule in {kib}.
For example:

[role="screenshot"]
image::management/connectors/images/obs-ai-assistant-action.png[Add an Observability AI Assistant action while creating a rule in the Observability UI]

> //TODO: Check with Lisa to see if we can autogenerate this screen capture.

Author: ```suggestion
```
